---
title:
    page: "UnverLegal - Liability of the Landowner, who is not a Party to the Real Estate Purchase Agreement, within the Scope of The Liability of Confidence"
    post: "Liability of the Landowner, who is not a Party to the Real Estate Purchase Agreement, within the Scope of The Liability of Confidence"
description: "Responsibility of the non-contractual landowner for the damage incurred by the buyer who bought a residence from the contractor"
date: "2021-05-01"
readTime: "25 min"
cover:
    image: "/images/blogPost/generic/generic.jpg"
    alt: "UnverLegal publication image header art"
author:
    name: Eralp Ünver
    picture: "/images/blog/eralpUnver.jpg"
language: "en"
---

# Liability of the Landowner, who is not a Party to the Real Estate Purchase Agreement, within the Scope of The Liability of Confidence

### "Responsibility of the non-contractual landowner for the damage incurred by the buyer who bought a residence from the contractor”

###### May 01, 2021 - 25 min read

**Keywords:**liability of confidence, normative trust, construction agreement in return for land share, liability for loss, contractor, landowner, buyer/consumer, triangular relationship, Swissair decision, inter partes, principle of relativity of contracts, prohibition of contradictory behavior, justified trust in the eyes of the consumer, the rule of honesty, real estate purchase agreement, house sale contract 

In accordance with the principle of relativity, contracts can only bind the parties who entered into it, the debt relationship will only have judgements and results between the parties out of this relationship (inter partes), and the rights and debts arising from the debt relationship can be claimed against to the other party of this relationship. Therefore, it will not be possible to assert them against third parties. Although, this is the general rule this principle is not an absolute rule, that may lead to some exceptions arising from the law or contract that make this relationship effective for third parties. For example, the Law numbered 6502 holds the seller, manufacturer and importer severally responsible in specific cases. In some situations, the appearance created by the person who is not a party to the contract can be stated as an exception to the principle of relativity within the scope of the liability of confidence. 

The liability of confidence, which is based on German law and affects both Swiss and Turkish law, is based on the idea that one person has to bear the consequences of the appearance in the eyes of another person. If the person who deliberately reveals an appearance, later, claim that such situation is not real, it will be against the prohibition of contradictory behavior and the good faith. 

The rightful trust can also be created by third parties who are not contracting parties. Accordingly, if the third party personally affects the contract negotiations and the establishment of the contract with the confidence he/she gives and causes the establishment of the contract, this extra-contractual party will be liable to compensate the damage. Conditions that must occur in order to exist of the liability of confidence: I) establishing a justified trust that the contract will occur, II) the person who trust shows bona fides (goodfaith), III) the existence of a special bond between the person and parties who will be responsible for the liability of confidence, III) the existence of a transactional contact between the parties, IV) the occurrence of a damage and appropriate causal link between the damage and the breach of liability. 

The subject is regulated in German law. Accordingly, third parties who are not parties to the contract will be responsible for the failure of the liability of confidence if they have seriously affected the contract negotiations and the conclusion of the contract by giving significant trust to the other party. In Swiss law, there is no direct regulation regarding the liability of confidence. The Federal Court tries to establish a framework for such issues and decisions are being evaluated by them. The most important and fundamental decision on this matter is the Swissair decision. In the case, the subsidiary company used the logo of the parent company “Swissair” in their catalogs, advertisements and similar areas prepared for the promotion of luxury residences they wanted to sell and announced to the public that the parent company was always behind them. According to the Federal Court, a rightful trust and legal appearance has been formed in the society as a result of the advertisements made. For this reason, the parent company has also been held liable to third parties due to the transactions of the subsidiary company within the scope of the theory of confidence. 

Even though there is no positive regulation in the Turkish Code of Obligations numbered 6098, the liability of confidence has been regulated in terms of controlling companies in Article 209 of the Turkish Commercial Code numbered 6102. In the preface of the provision, the Swissair verdict was referred, and it was stated that Republic of Turkey is the first country who regulated the liability of trust for group of companies between society or consumer. According to the aforementioned provision, the controlling company was held responsible for the trust aroused by the use of its reputation in cases where the reputation of the group reaches a level high enough to give confidence to the society or the consumer. 

The boundaries of the subject in terms of the Turkish Law of Obligations are controversial and the issue has recently been brought to the agenda in court decisions. In one of the most important decisions in which the liability of confidence is mentioned and discussed as a concept in our law, the Plenary Assembly of the Court of Cassation evaluated the responsibility of the municipality, which is not a party to the contract but has justified trust in the buyers, within the framework of the liability of confidence and held the municipality responsible. As stated in the opposite vote in another similar decision of the Supreme Court, the basis of trust, which forms the basis of debt relations independent of performance obligations, expresses "normative trust" that is worth protecting in the normative sense, not as a psychological trust in the sense of the inner world of the person. Normative trust is regulated in the Article 2/1 of Turkish Civil Code numbered 4721. The interpretation and completion of an established contract is carried out in accordance with the good faith and trust. Herein, the common point that the logic of law and the idea of fairness are directed to, it is the necessity to protect the legitimate expectations of those who have a certain trust relationship between them. 

In practice, the name and logo of the municipality or another public institution are placed side by side with the contractor company in the advertisements, announcements, brochures and other promotional activities of the project to be carried out; sometimes it is emphasized by both parties that the construction is carried out in cooperation with the municipality / public institution, in addition even the mayor of that period makes statements for the stated project on various platforms, all the facilities of this institution are mobilized for the promotion of the project, the project is advertised in local and national newspapers and news sites. It is obvious that advertisements that mislead the consumer and create a normative confidence in the eyes of consumer. Therefore, the will of the consumers at the time with the contractor is affected. The rightful trust in the buyer that the project was built under the security of the landowner, is a trust worth protecting. Herein, due to different legal reasons, both the landowner and the contractor will be jointly responsible for the same damage. The landowner, who is not a party to the real estate purchase agreement, is obligated to compensate the damages incurred by the buyer/consumer even if he/she does not have a contractual responsibility. This will be the most appropriate solution to fairness and legal security. The Court of Cassation also makes decisions based on the above grounds in similar cases, and holds the landowners, who are usually the municipality or another public institution, responsible for the damages suffered by the buyer/consumer within the scope of the liability of confidence.

**Precedent:**The Plenary Assembly of the Court of Cassation 13-56/264, KT 04.05.2011; the 13th Civil Chamber of the Court of Cassation, decision numbered E. 2013/28184, K. 2014/9002, dated 11/06/2013

**Bibliography:** 
Arat, Ayşe: Konut Satışında Üç Köşeli İlişkilerden Doğan Sorumluluk, İstanbul, On İki Levha Yayıncılık, Ekim 2018
Eren, Fikret: Borçlar Hukuku Özel Hükümler, 8.bs., Ankara, Yetkin Yayınları, 2020
