---
title:
    page: "UnverLegal - Differences Between Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement and License Agreement"
    post: "Differences Between Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement and License Agreement"
description: "The Nature, Subject, and Rights Granted of the Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement and the License Agreement"
date: "2023-07"
readTime: "10 min"
cover:
    image: "/images/blogPost/generic/generic.jpg"
    alt: "UnverLegal publication image header art"
author:
    name: Eralp Ünver
    picture: "/images/blog/eralpUnver.jpg"
language: "en"
---

# Differences Between Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement and License Agreement

### The Nature, Subject, and Rights Granted of the Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement and the License Agreement

###### July 2023 - 10 min read

**Keywords:** Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement, License Agreement, Commitment to Transfer the Economic Right, Full (exclusive) License, Simple License 

**Transfer of Economic Rights Agreement**
The economic rights transfer agreement is a type of contract in which the right holder transfers his economic right, is regulated in article 48/1 of the Law on Intellectual and Artistic Works numbered 5846 (LIAW) and is related to the transfer of the economic right of the owner or his successors to another person, limited or unlimited, or mutually or unrequitedly, in terms of place, time and content. In this context, the economic right ransfer agreement may be established in relation to all economic rights regulated in LIAW. With the transfer of economic right agreement, which is a disposition transaction in nature, the right or rights subject to the transfer exit from the assets of the transferor and enter into the assets of the transferee. As a rule, the transfer of the economic right is an abstract transaction, and even if the legal reason is not valid or not realized, the economic right passes to the transferee. In case of violation of the economic right that has been taken over, the person who has taken over the right can file all the civil lawsuits known to the owner of the work in his own name and can file a criminal complaint under the criminal law. Pursuant to Article 52 of the LIAW, the contracts and dispositions regarding economic rights must be made in written contracts and each of the rights that are the subject of it must be shown separately in the contract. In other words, the transfer agreement stating "I have transferred all my economic rights" will be deemed invalid. 

On the other hand, moral rights which are regulated in LIAW cannot constitute the subject of the transfer of economic rights agreement. Because moral rights are exclusive rights that are closely tied to the personality of the owner and cannot be transferred or inherited. Pursuant to article 48/3 of the LIAW, the transfer of the economic right can only be made for the completed works. In other words, the economic rights transfer agreement for works that have not yet been created or will be completed is invalid. Pursuant to Article 51 of the LIAW, contracts regarding the transfer of economic rights likely to be granted to the author by the legislation to be enacted in the future will also be invalid. In terms of works that have not yet been brought into existence, the transfer of the economic right is not in question, but in such cases, a commitment to transfer the economic right can be made pursuant to Article 50 of the LIAW. This transaction is inherently a debiting transaction. Therefore, the person to whom a commitment is made cannot directly acquire the economic rights on the work upon completion of the work. The person to whom the commitment has been made has a right of receivable here, and the debt of the owner of the work or his/her successor is now to realize the savings related to the transfer. Article 50/2 of the LIAW authorizes each party to terminate these commitments, provided that it takes effect one year after the notification date. In practice, the courts from time to time accept that after the work is completed the rights subject to the contract are directly transferred, without seeking any other transfer transaction, but this is contrary to the relevant provisions of the LIAW and the basic principles of the Law of Obligations.

**License Agreement**
With the license agreement regulated in LIAW article 48/2, the licensee has the right to use the right that is the subject of the agreement, in other words, the licensee has the right to benefit from the right. Granting the authorization to use is called license in the law. It is a controversial issue in the doctrine whether licensing agreements are debiting or savings transaction. According to the view we also agree with, the license agreement is a debiting transaction. Because in the license agreement, the right owner grants the licensee the "right to use" right subject to the agreement, in other words, in the license, the essence of the right remains in the right owner's assets, and there is no transfer of rights to the licensee. On the other hand, the opposite opinion accepts the license agreement as a savings transaction like the assignment of the receivable. The Court of Cassation also mostly accepts that license agreements are savings. A license may be granted not only for economic rights, but also for moral rights regulated in article 14 and the following provisions of LIAW. Pursuant to article 56 of the LIAW, license agreements are divided into simple and full (exclusive) licenses. If the permission granted does not prevent the right owner from giving the same permission to others, it is a simple license. According to the second paragraph of the article, any license given to third parties by the right holder is considered a simple license, unless otherwise understood from the law or the relevant contract. A full (exclusive) license agreement is the agreement under which the right to use subject to the agreement is not given to anyone other than the licensee. Here, the right owner will not be able to use the right, which is the subject of the license, unless otherwise expressly agreed in the contract between the parties. However, since the right remains in the property of the licensor, even if the right owner has granted a full license, he will be able to dispose of his economic right and transfer the right to someone else. According to article 56/3 of the LIAW revenue rent provisions shall be applied in simple licenses and the usufruct right provisions shall be applied in exclusive licenses.

Since the license right provides a personal right to the licensee, in case of a violation of the license, the licensee will not be able to file a lawsuit on his/her own, he/she will notify the author, and the lawsuit can be brought by the author. On the other hand, there is an opinion that lawsuit authority should be distinguished according to the type of license which is in terms of simple license, the licensee cannot sue, while in the full license the licensee has the power to sue. However, we cannot agree with this view, because the license holder will not be able to file a lawsuit, whether a simple or a full license, does not arise from the assets of the right holder and the licensee does not have the opportunity to directly file a lawsuit against the violations in the provisions of the LIAW. On the other hand, with a provision to be stipulated in the license agreement, the licensee may be entitled to file a lawsuit against violations of the right subject to the license.